Interesting.
>> Nope.
>> Sadly, it's enough for me.
>> But what the is it?
>> If I told you only one of these widgets
was made by Nothing, which one would you
pick?
>> Well, neither of them are official
nothing widgets. These were designed
earlier this year by Rahul, a visual
artist and nothing community member who
is actually responsible for helping
create the viral snake game concept.
Rahul decided to create 10 widget
concepts over 10 days. And today, our
software team are taking a look at them.
Let's go.
[Music]
When I was growing up, I remember seeing
this on someone's Mac laptop and I
thought it was just the coolest thing
ever. There are certain apps that just
time out way quicker than you want.
Whether it's like looking at a recipe or
something like this. It looks like the
icon is kind of sitting in the center
because the handle's coming out a touch
and we've got the underline underneath.
I don't think it's perfectly centered in
the circle.
>> I think on a case like this, it might be
worthwhile just to have the coffee cup
always appear full when it's toggled on.
Maybe you can even have it slowly sink
down as it gets closer to the end of the
time. having it go from the circular
widget to a kind of uh 2x1. Is it going
to be able to fill that space? A lot of
the times people are just filling up
every space they can get. Probably just
needs to maybe be in an expanded widget,
maybe with additional buttons to cycle
up and down the time.
>> Why is it living on the home screen? Is
that the place for it? If it was in the
quick setting panel, maybe that would be
more fitting. We need to um be able to
justify our widgets and why we're
providing them to users and what's the
benefit they're gaining from it. Okay.
Spin a widget.
[Music]
>> Stop. This is incredible. Very
interesting. I really like this one.
>> This is probably the most off-the-wall
concept of the whole series.
>> First of all, I can say I can 100%
picture Carl coming by my desk and
saying, "We need to push a fidget
spinner and we need it yesterday." Wow.
He came up with these cool names, dude.
Echo rotor, ghost spin.
>> This is the kind of society we live in
now, isn't it, though? Where that sort
of thing is probably quite exciting for
people to collect fidget spinners.
>> I'm already imagining the haptics I
would feel as I spin this on my home
screen. Avoid opening Instagram for 7
days. These might be a bit extreme. I
don't think Zuck would be very happy
with us if we explicitly called out
Instagram, but maybe we would let users
pick their app of choice not to use for
a week. In that sense, we can sidestep
legal considerations. It's like the
feeling of motion is so perfect. It's
doing the thing where like the a wheel
looks like it's spinning backwards cuz
it's spinning too quickly. It's such a
nice effect to see well executed in an
animation.
>> Mega satisfying. That's something about
fidget spinners, isn't it? Like the
tactile feel, how easy it is to get a
huge amount of motion. Am I going to get
any of that on a screen, though?
[Music]
Can a screen be as fun as this? I'm
doubtful. Next widget is age in motion.
[Music]
>> Yeah. Interesting. I uh to be honest, I
think the last thing I want to see is me
aging.
>> It doesn't motivate you.
>> Oh, no. It does quite the opposite.
Just creates pressure. not necessarily
reminds me that every second counts and
makes me want to make better use of that
time.
>> If you're someone who is anxious about
achieving enough in your lifetime, this
is probably not going to make things any
better for you. I think the idea behind
it is really interesting. But would it
give me anxiety? Probably quite a lot.
But what wouldn't give me anxiety is
knowing that I'm in for a chance of
winning a Phone 3 Pro right here on our
YouTube channel. Be sure to drop into
the comment section below and tell us
which of these widgets were your
favorite. T's and C's are in the
description. Best of luck. I love how it
says watch yourself age in real time.
Could be just like a mirror. My
bachelor's thesis project was about this
very topic. How do we visualize time
like the passage of time and then how do
we relate that to yourself like to your
own lifespan? There's a whole kind of
thing around momento mory and kind of
keeping this fact or this knowledge kind
of present and how much more present it
can make you living your own life. And I
think something like this would be
amazing. Just the seconds counting kind
of like lacks context. How different is
this from just looking at the clock?
Also, there are limitations to how
quickly widgets can refresh on your home
screen to save battery. So, it might be
a little distracting as well, like
several frames per second change. I can
already hear our devs screaming at us to
be mindful of conserving battery life.
So, our next one is clipboard widget.
[Music]
Epic. I don't know why we haven't done
this already cuz the clipboard
functionality on Gboard is kind of
lacking. The downside with that one, I
think, is your items get cleared out
quite quickly. What Rafool is solving
with this widget basically is a way to
have your clipboard persist longer than
what Google deemed secure and good
enough.
>> Fingerprint unlock, I think, just
illustrates that he's thinking about
maybe there's some, you know, secret
stuff that people don't want prying eyes
to find. So immediately, you are
probably going to copy passwords and
copy things like that. You're most
likely going to want to have those
hidden from people using your phone. So
having that extra bit of security is
good. And obviously we're looking at it
full screen here. So I'm imagining if
this was actually on my screen, would
the text be super small?
>> What is this
>> widget for ants?
>> Next up, we have system info.
[Music]
Okay, so of all of the widgets, when
this one cropped up, I knew that knowing
our audience, this would be smashit
popular.
>> For all the sweaty nerds who like to
stare at numbers and graphs, this is
this is for them.
>> I would use this all the time. It feels
like I'm unlocking my phone and I'm
getting a dashboard seeing what's going
on. Lots of people use battery health
apps. Lots of people are interested to
know whether they're getting the best
possible frame rates in their games. And
I think a lot of the solutions for this
on the Play Store, they look kind of ass
lowkey highkey. Actually,
>> there is a bit of an inconsistency when
it comes to the way things are labeled.
We have health and cycles which are
labels. This is probably Roboto. But
then we have battery in NOT. When you're
just glancing at it and picking up
information, you want them to be
consistent so your brain can kind of
quickly make sense of it. And then we
have quite a few different size of dots
as far as I can tell from here. It would
be nice if if they were all built off
the same grid. Right, let's do the next
one. Walkie-talkie. I'm in this one.
[Music]
Bro, this feels like a secret paging
gadget.
Mate, don't be weird. We're only talking
to each other for our home screens.
>> No way. Did you clone Rob's voice?
Delighted to be involved. I'm guessing
it's going to be a web-based
walkie-talkie. So, it's going to be
sending voice clips as though you're in
WhatsApp or Telegram.
>> So, if you look in the lower left here,
you'll see an LED. It would probably be
nice to have some indicator between one
person being ready and both people being
ready. And when both those lights turn
red, you know that you can instantly
communicate with them. I think that
would have been nice. And the really big
missed opportunity here is while you're
talking there could be a dope like grid
like dot grid waveform playing uh on the
screen. You probably didn't have the
time for that. Our next one is sun dial
widget.
[Music]
This is so cool. I'm liking this. This
is something I can see myself using. I
feel like there's an opportunity here to
be a little bit stronger with the
information that we're displaying. Maybe
the visualization. I know the red is a
really strong nothing color, but
sometimes it is quite a big alert
warning. Nothing has a really good
secondary yellow that could fit quite
nicely here. Once again, this the text
in this widget like the way it's
presented is way too small.
Maybe you don't even need to write
minutes as a whole. You could just do
form in or again just show the numbers
like counting down and go into the
seconds. This way you could be a much
stronger with a label and use less of
like the two lines going across the one
one by one text just introduces so many
problems. What does it look like in
German or Chinese? Every time we place
text on one of our screens, we need to
consider how it's translated into every
language. Cuz when you have so many
widgets with text on them, it can make
your home screen look really textheavy.
So, always trying to strike a balance
between relying just on the visuals or
falling back to rely on text.
>> Let's go on the the Chrono widget.
[Music]
All
right. So, this is day seven and he was
getting tired.
>> I got a little bit distracted still
seeing the age ticking away.
>> So, it basically has the same
functionality as a stopwatch,
>> but it does kind of look like it's not
vertically,
>> oh brother,
>> centered within the circle. I always
find it very buggy when I see digits
kind of just like jump and then move
around. And it's the same with text
where you just really uh having to kind
of move your eye. It's it's a bit
unsettling.
>> I love the little red dot. How do we
communicate that tapping on the red dot
resets the timer? Usually in a clock
app, I believe the play button turns
into a pause button or a stop button.
There's also a reset kind of like arrow
that kind of curves back onto itself to
just really quickly visually symbolize
reset. Like without these cues, it's not
as clear. Again, the widgets aren't like
a huge space for a user to tap. So, you
might want to consider the different
types of interactions here, whether that
circle is big enough for someone to tap.
And with some of these widgets, again,
like that's just the size of the widget.
So, having two interactions here could
be quite difficult. Next up, we have
World Clock
[Music]
to quickly see the best time to chat to
someone by moving a slider left and
right. Sounds great.
>> It would have been cool to see the
shadow like wave move across it as you
swiped the time back and forth. But when
London is added, I would kind of want it
to reshuffle and sit between New York
and Dubai. So, they're kind of sitting
in the appropriate place um tied to um
their actual time zone. So, it says
10:06 p.m. which is the local time
indicator, but then here we're seeing
2206. Feels like that should probably be
aligned. We might just end up
implementing something like that in a
different way, but yeah, it's really
cool. Our next one is Pomodoro widget.
[Music]
This is really cool. Why haven't we done
this yet? This is something I would
absolutely use myself to concentrate.
I'm not an expert in pomodoro timers,
but the general concept is you work for
25 minutes, take a break for 5 minutes,
and then you repeat. It helps people be
more focused. I've never tried Pomodoro
method for productivity myself, but it
is quite appealing to me. It feels like
you have to commit to buying a dedicated
little desk clock. So, actually having
it on my phone would probably be a nice
shortcut without spending any money. I
think this is something that Carl
himself would love and push pretty
heavily. I'm just not sure if this is
the best way to display pomodoro like as
the text. Don't even get me started on
the endon. O endon. Maybe even breaking
up the minutes and seconds to be
vertical here would have been a better
use of space. Perhaps Raul felt
constrained by the own grid he created
and like perhaps this was just a
leftover spot for the pomodoro. This
could be something that would work much
better as like a 2x two like a full
square. I actually like this one. Yeah,
I could potentially try this one cuz I
don't take breaks frequently enough.
Five minute break after 25 hours. 25.